Collecting requirements for benchmark automation (#381)
faster-cpython/ideas: benchmark-automation/requirements.md

All parts of the system should be replicatable locally at the command line, and not require any complicated setup.

## Out of scope

We aren't aiming to support an "implementation shootout", e.g. between PyPy, Pyston and CPython.
The pyperformance benchmark suite will continue to be designed for this, but the rest of the tooling described here may not necessarily support it.

## Block diagram

The following is a block diagram of the proposed system.

While this is not intended as a description of current functionality, existing tools that provide some of this functionality are noted.
Importantly, there isn't currently a connection between the benchmark runner and `speed.python.org` -- these are currently distinct efforts.

![Block diagram](/benchmark-automation/Benchmark Infrastructure Block Diagram.png)

## Definitions

### Results

"Results", all of which come from running `pyperformance` in the same configuration, come in the following flavors:

- **Nightly**: Run once a day on the current `main` branch of CPython.

> - **Tag**: Run on tagged releases of Python. The most recent patch release for all supported releases, and all alphas, betas and rcs for the current development release.

Reviewer: Maybe clarify? Between the May beta freeze and the October release each year, we have two different branches (currently, `3.11` and `main`) that could be called a "current development release".

Since not too much performance development happens after the beta freeze, perhaps this can be simplified to "alphas from the current `main` cycle" or similar?

```suggestion
- **Tag**: Run on tagged releases of Python. The most recent tag for all feature branches and all alphas from the current `main` cycle.
```

Currently, this would include:
- `v3.7.13`
- `v3.8.13`
- `v3.9.13`
- `v3.10.4`
- `v3.11.0b1`

(3.12 isn't represented yet, since no alphas have been tagged.)

- **Manual**: Run on a specific commit or pull request of CPython. Usually created in response to Github automation or using a CLI tool.

## Requirements

### Requesting a manual benchmark run at the commandline

Using a commandline tool available on PyPI, a developer could request a benchmark run on a specific commit in their published fork of CPython.
The results would be uploaded to the results database and viewable on the public website, with an option to download the complete raw data.

For example:

```
$ run_benchmark myname/cpython@135abf
Results will be available at https://example.com/pyspeed/myname/135abf
```

For security and scaling reasons, users would need to be granted explicit permission to do this. There may be a way to piggy back on Github authentication (which would let permitted users be managed there), but TBD whether this is possible.

### Requesting a manual benchmark in a pull request

When a contributor submits a pull request where a performance impact is expected, a developer with sufficient permissions could request a benchmark run.

> This could be done with, for example, optional Github Actions or a bot that monitors pull requests.

Reviewer: Yes please!

### Benchmark suite evolution

We expect the benchmark suite to evolve rapidly in the near future as we add more real-world workloads to it.
When a new release of `pyperformance` ships, the following will happen automatically:

- Rerun all **Tag** results.
- Rerun the last two weeks of **Nightly** results.
- **Manual** results will be invalidated, and will need to be re-requested against the new benchmark suite.

> To avoid problems, the front-end analysis tools will be designed to never allow comparing results from two different releases of `pyperformance`.

Reviewer 2: I wonder if we could at least compare results of analogous runs (i.e., from the same git revision) for two adjacent PyPerformance releases, so we can assess whether the new PyPerformance release changes anything? And then we might (manually, after some deliberation) declare the new version compatible with the old version.

Author: Yeah, that probably makes some sense.  In the general case, all bets are off, but if we know and can confirm manually it has no impact, we could flag something like "this tagged release is compatible with the previous one".

> The limiting factor of this approach will be how long it takes to run the benchmark suite.  It currently takes 20 minutes (on my machine), and assuming around 10 **Tag** results and 14 **Nightly** results, it would take approximately 8 hours.  Even assuming the benchmark runs increase significantly, this could be completed over a weekend when **Manual** requests are less likely.

Reviewer: This seems a bit fast. Does it account for PGO/LTO CPython compilation and fresh venv creation for each build?

Author: Good catch. I didn't include compilation time (but did include venv-creation time) in my measurement.  I'll update this to something more realistic.
